Product management is not black and white.
Our answers may be completely different,
but as long as you're able to justify your reasoning and capture
actions that enable you and your team to measure your KPIs,
then you should be on the right track.
Here's a potential solution that I would have.
Going back to the prompt, URPM at YouTube.
You are launching a new feature that enables lightweight
video editing native to YouTube studio,
before a video is uploaded.
Lets call this feature Symphony.
First, lets set our OKRs.
Our objective would be to empower our casual, emphasis on casual,
YouTube creators to have
all the editing capabilities they need to add it raw content on to YouTube,
without having to edit on an expensive third-party program.
Key result for this objective would be to maintain the quality of
videos specifically for the casual user segment at the same rate it was before.
This can be measured through viewership engagement in terms of the volume of comments,
likes, and views per video.
Another key result of this objective would be to increase
the rate of videos uploaded by the casual creator segment.
Our second objective would be able to keep symphony lightweight,
being completely intentional about what features are available and which ones are not,
minimizing the potential for clutter or feature overload in the editor.
A key result would be to ensure that no feature is underutilized.
We're less than three percent of all YouTube uploads
from casual creators are not using the feature.
So again, here's our first objective and it's relevant key results.
The KPIs for this would be averaged like counts,
three months after publish for videos by creators in the casual segment.
Likewise, average comments and views for the same dimensions.
Now, given that video likes, video comments,
and video views, are metadata information about the video.
We don't need this data stored in an event.
We could assume that YouTube has a video state table that measures video likes,
video comments, and video views over time.
Again, here's key result 2 for objective 1.
Our KPI for this is the number of videos uploaded by creators in
the casual segment divided by the total number of creators in the casual segment.
We'll need to ensure that the following events are
filed to be able to measure this video uploaded,
which signifies every time a video was successfully uploaded.
At the very least, this falling event would need to have the properties
of video ID and creator ID.
We can have creator segment here as well, as a property.
However, there's most likely
a creator dimension table that attributes the creator ID to the creator segment.
No need for including extraneous information in your event,
when it's already stored in another table or event.
So here's our key results for objective 2 for our KPI.
Only to figure out for each feature,
what percentage of all total uploads had this editing feature applied on the video.
For events, we could reuse our video uploaded event again,
which is triggered every time a video is successfully uploaded.
However, in addition to our existing properties for this event,
we'll need to include the notion of edit applied property,
which is an array or a list of strings that
correspond to the features that are applied to this video upon upload.